# The SeaFlect Project


[The SeaFlect project](https://aeolus-surface-wind.aer.com/index.html) is an, under [ESA's EO Science for Society](https://eo4society.esa.int/) project funded activity aimed  to explore a possible relation between the Aeolus return signal from the ocean surface and the wind speed.

Such a relation has been demonstrated using the Aeolus Demonstrator (A2D).

```{note}
need to add the references to Li et al.
```

The analysis of the A2D supports the following considerations: under low wind conditions the ocean surface is free of whitecaps, and the return signal is dominated by the backscatter from the sub-surface ocean layers.  For the cases considered here is this signal is generated by backscattering from chlorophyl.

With increasing wind speed, whitecaps are formed on the sea surface. Whitecaps are bright in the UV.

As he fractional whitecap is increasing with wind speed, the surface return from the lidar on board of the aircraft, is expected to increase with windspeed.

Although a relation between lidar return strength and surface wind speed has been inferred from the A2D observations, a similar behaviour has not yet been demonstrated using space borne observations.
As such it would be a novel application of the Aeolus observations if indeed such a relation can be demonstrated.

To arrive at an understanding if it is possible to derive a meaningful wind product from Aeolus surface return, first a diagnostic analysis of the basic Aeolus data is performed. Results of which are presented in the next pages.

```{tableofcontents}
```
